W-12520153-new-pricing (#161)
mulesoft/docs-general: modules/ROOT/pages/pricing.adoc

> = Anypoint Platform Pricing

Reviewer: I recommend no change to this title.

= Anypoint Platform Pricing

[IMPORTANT]
====
This document applies only to a select pilot of program participants and is not available for general public use.
Details in this document are subject to change.
MuleSoft personnel are not permitted to share or forward this document to audiences outside the pilot program.
====

This document describes the changes introduced in Runtime Manager for CloudHub 1.0, 
CloudHub 2.0, Anypoint Runtime Fabric, and Access Management to support the new pricing and packaging model.

== Supported Mule Runtime Versions

> To benefit from the new pricing and packaging model, all of your applications (in production and sandbox) must use Mule runtime engine versions 4.1.x or later, and a date-patch version later than Feb-2023. After your organization is onboarded to the new pricing and packaging model, you must redeploy your apps with a supported version, either manually or during the monthly patching cycle. The monthly patching cycle is applicable only for CloudHub 1.0 and CloudHub 2.0 applications. You must manually redeploy Runtime Fabric applications (with a supported date-patch version) after your organization is onboarded to the new pricing and packaging model.

Author: ```suggestion
To benefit from the new pricing and packaging model, all of your applications (in production and sandbox) must use Mule runtime engine versions 4.1.x or later, and a date-patch version later than Feb-2023. After your organization is onboarded to the new pricing and packaging model, you must redeploy your apps with a supported version, either manually or during the monthly patching cycle. The monthly patching cycle is applicable only for CloudHub 1.0 and CloudHub 2.0 applications. RTF customers must be using RTF agent version 1.13.112 or 2.1.30 or newer. You must also manually redeploy Runtime Fabric applications (with a supported date-patch version) after your organization is onboarded to the new pricing and packaging model.
```

* 3.9.5-20230424-2
* 3.9.4-20230424-1
* 3.9.3-20230424-1
* 3.9.2-20230424-1
* 3.9.1-20230424-1

|=== 

After your organization is onboarded to the new pricing and packaging model, you must redeploy your apps with a supported version, either manually or during the monthly patching cycle. The monthly patching cycle is applicable only for CloudHub 1.0 and CloudHub 2.0 applications. RTF customers must be using RTF agent version 1.13.112 or 2.1.30 or newer. You must also manually redeploy Runtime Fabric applications (with a supported date-patch version) after your organization is onboarded to the new pricing and packaging model.

If you want to xref:cloudhub-2::ch2-update-apps.adoc#roll-back-to-a-previous-successful-configuration[roll back] to a previous successful configuration of existing applications that use a Mule version that the new pricing and packaging model does not support, you must choose a compliant version before deploying changes. After deployment, a new configuration with the previously chosen settings and a supported runtime is created.

== Metrics Definitions

Anypoint Platform has a pricing package that is based on consumption of allotted Mule components.

> // For information about pricing concepts within Anypoint Platform, see xref:general::pricing-metrics.adoc[Pricing and Usage Metrics].

Author: ```suggestion
For information about pricing concepts within Anypoint Platform, see xref:general::pricing-metrics.adoc[Pricing and Usage Metrics].
```

= Anypoint Platform Pricing

[IMPORTANT]
====

> This document applies only to select customers in the AMER control plane and is not available for general public use.

Author: ```suggestion
This document applies only to select customers in the US control plane who are opted in to a new pricing model.
```

Mule 3 images version:

* 3.9.5-20230424-2
* 3.9.4-20230424-1
* 3.9.3-20230424-1
* 3.9.2-20230424-1
* 3.9.1-20230424-1

|=== 

After your organization onboards to the new pricing and packaging model, you must redeploy your apps with a supported version, either manually or during the monthly patching cycle. The monthly patching cycle is applicable only for CloudHub 1.0 and CloudHub 2.0 applications. RTF customers must be using RTF agent version 1.13.112 or 2.1.30 or newer. You must also manually redeploy Runtime Fabric applications (with a supported date-patch version) after your organization is onboarded to the new pricing and packaging model.

To xref:cloudhub-2::ch2-update-apps.adoc#roll-back-to-a-previous-successful-configuration[roll back] to a previous successful configuration of existing applications that use a Mule version that the new pricing and packaging model does not support, choose a compliant version before deploying changes. After deployment, MuleSoft creates a new configuration with the previously chosen settings and a supported runtime.

== Metrics Definitions

Anypoint Platform has a pricing package that is based on the consumption of allotted Mule components.

> For information about pricing concepts within Anypoint Platform, see xref:general::pricing-metrics.adoc[Pricing and Usage Metrics].

Author: ```suggestion
For information about pricing concepts within Anypoint Platform, see xref:general::pricing-metrics.adoc[Usage and Pricing Metrics].
```

= Anypoint Platform Pricing

[IMPORTANT]
====
This document applies only to a select pilot of program participants and is not available for general public use.
Details in this document are subject to change.

> MuleSoft personnel are not permitted to share or forward this document to audiences outside the pilot program.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MuleSoft personnel are not permitted to share or forward this document to audiences outside of the pilot program.
```

> [IMPORTANT]
> ====
> This document applies only to a select pilot of program participants and is not available for general public use.
> Details in this document are subject to change.
> MuleSoft personnel are not permitted to share or forward this document to audiences outside of the pilot program.

Author: ```suggestion
[IMPORTANT]
====
This document applies only to select customers in the AMER control plane and is not available for general public use.
Details in this document are subject to change.
```

====

This document describes the changes introduced in Runtime Manager for CloudHub 1.0, 
CloudHub 2.0, Anypoint Runtime Fabric, and Access Management to support the new pricing and packaging model.

== Supported Mule Runtime Versions

To benefit from the new pricing and packaging model, all of your applications (in production and sandbox) must use the following Mule versions:

[cols="2*"]
|===
|Deployment Type |Version Requirements

|CloudHub 2.0
|The latest date-patch versions for 4.3 and 4.4

|CloudHub 1.0
|The latest date-patch versions for 3.9, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4

|Runtime Fabric
a| One of the following versions or any later date-patch:

Mule 4 images version:

* 4.4.0-20230111-1
* 4.3.0-20221212-2
* 4.2.2-20221027-7
* 4.2.1-20221027-7
* 4.2.0-20221027-6

Mule 3 images version:

* 3.9.5-20230424-2
* 3.9.4-20230424-1
* 3.9.3-20230424-1
* 3.9.2-20230424-1
* 3.9.1-20230424-1

|=== 

> After your organization is onboarded to the new pricing and packaging model, you must redeploy your apps with a supported version, either manually or during the monthly patching cycle. The monthly patching cycle is applicable only for CloudHub 1.0 and CloudHub 2.0 applications. RTF customers must be using RTF agent version 1.13.112 or 2.1.30 or newer. You must also manually redeploy Runtime Fabric applications (with a supported date-patch version) after your organization is onboarded to the new pricing and packaging model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After your organization onboards to the new pricing and packaging model, you must redeploy your apps with a supported version, either manually or during the monthly patching cycle. The monthly patching cycle is applicable only for CloudHub 1.0 and CloudHub 2.0 applications. RTF customers must be using RTF agent version 1.13.112 or 2.1.30 or newer. You must also manually redeploy Runtime Fabric applications (with a supported date-patch version) after your organization is onboarded to the new pricing and packaging model.
```

> If you want to xref:cloudhub-2::ch2-update-apps.adoc#roll-back-to-a-previous-successful-configuration[roll back] to a previous successful configuration of existing applications that use a Mule version that the new pricing and packaging model does not support, you must choose a compliant version before deploying changes. After deployment, a new configuration with the previously chosen settings and a supported runtime is created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To xref:cloudhub-2::ch2-update-apps.adoc#roll-back-to-a-previous-successful-configuration[roll back] to a previous successful configuration of existing applications that use a Mule version that the new pricing and packaging model does not support, choose a compliant version before deploying changes. After deployment, MuleSoft creates a new configuration with the previously chosen settings and a supported runtime.
```

Reviewer 2: Can you say "After deployment, MuleSoft creates a new configuration..."??

== Metrics Definitions

> Anypoint Platform has a pricing package that is based on consumption of allotted Mule components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Anypoint Platform has a pricing package that is based on the consumption of allotted Mule components.
```

For information about pricing concepts within Anypoint Platform, see xref:general::pricing-metrics.adoc[Pricing and Usage Metrics].

// WIP

== Global Resource Pool Limits

> Root organizations provisioned with the new pricing and packaging receive a global pool of shared CPU and memory resources that is shared for deployments into CloudHub 1.0 and CloudHub 2.0 across all business groups and environments in the organization. The pool of resources is sufficiently large to consume all the purchased flows and messages without interruption. If an organization runs out of resources, actions that consume more resources such as deploying new applications or starting stopped applications are blocked until sufficient resources are available. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Root organizations provisioned with the new pricing and packaging receive a global pool of shared CPU and memory resources that is shared for deployments into CloudHub 1.0 and CloudHub 2.0 across all business groups and environments in the organization. This pool of resources is large enough to consume all of the purchased flows and messages without interruption. If an organization runs out of resources, actions that consume more resources such as deploying new applications or starting stopped applications are blocked until sufficient resources are available. 
```

== CloudHub 2.0 Application Deployment

CloudHub 2.0 now uses replica sizing for application deployment. You can choose from the following replica sizes based on the application profile or size and display the equivalent in terms of vCores. Replica sizes with the suffix `.mem` are memory-intensive options with the same compute. 

include::partial$pricing.adoc[tag=pricingTable]

During the monthly patching cycle, your applications automatically migrate to an equivalent replica size. Application deployment through the Mule Maven Plugin is not yet supported. However, you can deploy using the Runtime Manager UI and the Application Manager Experience APIs by leveraging a new field under `target.deploymentSettings` called `instanceType`.

== Access Management Entitlements

> Accounts provisioned with the new pricing and packaging show flows, messages, and throughput entitlements on Access Management instead of vCores. These entitlements are available at the root organization level and cannot be allocated among business groups. Because vCores are no longer the purchased entity, they can no longer be tracked or allocated among business groups. To view your monthly usage of flows, messages, and throughput, xref:general::usage-reports.adoc#access-usage-reports[access usage reports] using the Access Management UI. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Accounts provisioned with the new pricing and packaging show flows, messages, and throughput entitlements instead of vCores on Access Management. These entitlements are available at the root organization level and cannot be allocated among business groups. Because vCores are no longer the purchased entity, they can no longer be tracked or allocated among business groups. To view your monthly usage of flows, messages, and throughput, xref:general::usage-reports.adoc#access-usage-reports[access usage reports] by using the Access Management UI. 
```
